THe Killer Angels Opinion and Commentary 

     In the novel The Killer Angels, Mr. Shaara's historical accuracy is 
unquestionable. He has written this fabulous (Pulitzer Prize winning) novel. 
Although the heroic suicidal charge of the 10th Minnesotans on the second day of 
the battle was left out, Shaara focuses on Colonel Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain 
and the 20th Maine which makes up for the lapse.     It is safe to say that 
no other novel has so closely allowed the reader to understand the peculiar 
madness of this civil war. 
     After reading this powerful, exciting novel one assumes that whenever 
cultures clash, there will be a final conflict. By showing the reader what the 
principals of this great battle were (and may have been) current thinking on 
multiculturalism are highlighted in a new and perplexing way. This was a great 
feet for a book writen in 1974 to be so magnificent. 
     The Killer Angels has been made into a five hour long motion picture and 
is called 'Gettysburg.' The novel is so compelling that the story seldomly 
deviates from the movie. The movie illustrates Mr. Shaara's ability to tell a 
complex story with clarity. The novel shows a great depiction of the tragedy of 
war, like in the part when Armistead races into battle, even though he is 
fighting his best friend (Hancock), and they both get shot. It really shows the 
views of each side, and what each character felt. 
     The Killer Angels' will satisfy both the history buff and the Civil War 
buff. But the sense of duty, honor, and the appalling loss of life as well as 
the unbelievable heroism displayed by both sides in the battle will move many 
readers 

The Killer Angels Summary 

     This outstanding historical novel depicts four    days at Gettysburg, 
Pennsylvania which occur during summer of 1863. These crucial days are the 
turning point of the American Civil War and the strong days of the Confederacy. 
In just three days of slaughter in Eastern Pennsylvania, there was one-third as 
many casualties as during the three years of the Korean War. At the beginning, 
General Robert E. Lee leads a confident, flawless Confederate Army north into 
Pennsylvania. There, they hope to demolish the Union Army by provoking it into 
an attack. Colonel Chamberlain leads a desperate charge of the 20th Maine. For 
Colonel Chamberlain's actions, he later received the Congressional Medal of 
Honor. This is told with such force and clarity thet the reader smells the gun 
smoke, hears the rebel yells, feels the heat and desperation and experiences the 
exhaustion and relief of the Union troops when the day is finally won. 
     At one point, Buford finishes a battle and goes to the cemetery on the 
hill. He had been hit on his left arm. There were barely any of his calvary 
left. This scene described a sadness that Buford experienced. On the third and 
final day of actual conflict, Picketts Charge is told with great patience and 
sensitivity. This was a highlight of the novel. During this run, 15,000 
Confederate troops attacked a stable Union position that was spread across 
almost a mile of open ground. Many men died at this event. The conflicting 
strategies, which confronted General Lee, led him to order this ill-fated attack. 
These strategies are then further explained. 
     Mr  Shaara offers some insights into the nature of men (Killer Angels) 
and war. He states that the war was fought because of a clash in cultures and 
that the Union Army fought, not for plunder, loot, or power, but to make people 
free. He also makes it clear that the Confederate leaders and soldiers also 
fought for a different sense of freedom. The conflicts within men, who having 
vowed in happier times to never take arms against each other, yet nevertheless 
find themselves on opposite sides of a battlefield. The book closes with 
General Lee leading his weakened forces on a retreat south to the safety of 
Virginia after having lost thousands of men in furious assaults on Union 
 