i had been on a hiking trip when i was in elemetary days, our school had arranged students who will join the camping and since i was a girl scout member they choose me to be one of them. I have asked my parents permission, at first they dont want me to go because of the bad climate but later on they have agree and finally signed the permission letter. Two days before the camping i prepared all my things. We left our school campus at 5 am and reached the camping site at 11 am. At first i was so excited to attend the camping but after seeing the location site i was too dissapointed and scared as the location was too dark maybe because of the trees, the location is like a jungle. Were all 5 ladies who have attended and all of us are together in one tent as the camping is for overnight. Next day morning we heard a bell meaning the flag ceremony will start in 5 minutes.  we get up quickly and prepared ourselves. After the flag ceremony the teacher had announced that their will be a game for all. We have to find five balls which is hidden in a different areas in the camp site and in the middle of the game the rain started falling and it was to windy my team have decided to go back and not to look for another 3 remaining balls but i have told them not to be afraid and that is  just a rain and nothing will happen and they agree to me. We continue searching for another 3 balls then my team mate have noticed that only us is walking. " We should go back" i said because the rain is getting worst. and then when were on the way to our tent my team mate fell down and hurt her left foot. She was crying so loudly and after 5 minutes we heard a loud voice, shouting and mentioning our name. It is the malitary personnel who is actually looking for us. Actually at the beginning of the game the teacher had announced that the game is over because of the bad weather but we did not hear the announcement as were are so excited to win the game. Finally because of the encouragement and willingness to win they gave us an award. <B
