Images and Phrases that Appear on Screen throughout The Glass Menagerie 

effect of the images and phrases that appear on screen throughout 
the play was primarily to make the play more suitable to “being a 
memory play”. This was the most prominent characteristic the play “the 
glass menagerie” had which was different from many other plays. Also 
other effects such as drawing audience’s attention to Laura and having 
“an emotional appeal” were achieved by using these images and phrases 
throughout the play. 

The images and phrases highlighted the fact that “the glass menagerie” 
was a “memory play”. The audience were informed from the beginning 
that “the play is memory” by the narrator, Tom. The images, which come 
up on the screen, helped the audience to realize that it was a “memory 
play”. When Amanda babbled about her glorious memory of living in “Blue 
Mountain” the image on the screen showed “Amanda as a girl on a porch, 
greeting callers.” This would have helped the audience to visualize 
what Amanda’s life was like in the “Blue Mountain” thus helping the 
audience to connect with Amanda easily as they could see what she had 
experienced in the past. 

Also when Laura told Amanda about a boy she liked in high school the 
image on the screen showed “Jim as high school hero bearing a silver 
cup.” Once again showing someone’s dazzling past memory. The audience 
saw Jim on the screen image before seeing him acting on the stage. So 
he was introduced through Laura’s memory that was visualized on a 
screen image. This would have instantly encouraged the audience to 
remember what Tom has said about Jim in the beginning of the play – “he 
is the most realistic character in the play…” So the audience met the 
“most realistic character in the play” through someone’s memory who 
was “set apart from” the “world of reality” which was ironic. 

However, it served to highliht  fact that it was a “memory play” 
by showing another image, which was one of the character’s memory. 

Audiences were drawn to pay attention TO Laura by using the images and 
phrases on the screen. Laura was the least vocal and energetic 
character so it was very easy for the audience to forget her presence 
on the stage. However, it was fatal that her presence was noticed as 
the play evolved around her. But her character in the play was a shy, 
fragile, introverted and delicate girl so she did not move around nor 
speak much. In a contrast, all the other characters were loud, 
egocentric, and energetic and very noticeable. So there had to be 
other way of making her presence Known to the audience and Williams 
used various devices to achieve that. One of these devices was using 
images and phrases on the screen. In fact, most of the images and 
phrases were related to Laura. The image of “blue roses” and “the 
glass menagerie” were repeatedly shown to the audience, as they were 
the symbols, which represented her. 

Even her name, “Laura” appeared on the screen when she was not on the 
stage. Amanda asked Tom to bring a gentleman caller for Laura while 
Laura was out. This was an excellent evidence showing that the play 
was evolving around Laura. Even in la ck of her presence on the stage, 
other characters were discussing about her and she was the centre of 
their attention and should have been to the audiences as well. 

It was also noticeable when Laura   Jim a lot of phrases on the 
screen were shown. The reason behind it could be that Jim was a 
vibrant, talkative and an exciting character whom “ always expected 
something that we live for” which easily gained audiences attention, 
at the same time, making the audience forget about Laura’s presence 
which should not happen. So Williams used numerous phrases on the 
screen to draw some attention to Laura. For example, the phrase “ I 
don’t suppose you remember me at all!” was on the screen while Jim 
restlessly talked and the image of “blue roses” was on the screen just 
before the kiss scene, and then was changed to the phrase “souvenir” 
after the kissing. The souvenir was foretelling what was going to 
happen – Jim broke Laura’s heart by saying he was engaged and he 
physically broke the horn of the glass unicorn before which Laura gave 
to him as a souvenir when he left. 

It could only be assumed why she gave the unicorn to Jim. May be it 
was to remind him of what he has done to her or to show her affection. 
But it was clear that the images and phrases on the screen were used 
to draw audiences’ attention to Laura whom the audience could easily 
forget about. 

The images and the phrases had an “emotional appeal.” Williams himself 
said that it would and it definitely did. Various phrases used on the 
screen evoked some kind of emotion. Some examples were “the crust of 
humility” “terror!” “love” and “and so good-bye” 

The humiliation living a life of an old maid, who was not able to 
marry a decent man, how Laura felt when she had to open the door for a 
boy she ever liked, and Tom’s emotional last words were shown on the 
screen, which the audience could then see and feel. The very last 
words of the play were said by Tom which were “ and so good –bye” 

This probably was the most emotional line in the play as it showed Tom’s 
mingled emotions of guilt, love, annoyance and regret towards Laura. 
By having these phrases on the screen Williams have made it easier for 
the audience to sympathize or agree with the characters and made it 
harder to forget these lines. 

The effects of the images and the phrases on the screen were that 
these highlighted the fact that it was a “memory play” as well as 
drawing attention to Laura who was the most crucial character whom the 
audience could easily forget about as she was the least vocal and 
energetic character. Also it definitely had an “emotional appeal” to 
the audience and made it easier to sympathize with characters. 